1. Use your text editor to open these HTML and CSS files:
\html_css_5\exercises\town_hall_1\c8_index.html
\html_css_5\exercises\town_hall_1\styles\c8_main-css
Add a meta element for the viewport
2. Add a meta element like the one in figure 8-11 to the HTML for the page.
3. Display the page in Chrome. Then, size your browser window so it’s just
wide enough to see all ofthe page.
Convert the fixed widths to fluid widths
4. Display the CSS file for this page and note that the width ofthe body is
set to 800 pixels. Then, change this width to 98% so there’s room for the
3-pixel left and right borders, and change the maximum width to 960
pixels.
5. Set the width ofthe list in the submenu ofthe navigation menu to 100% so
it extends the full width ofthe list item.
6. Change the widths ofthe section and aside elements and the <a>elements
within the unordered list for the main navigation menu to percents by using
the formula in figure 8-4. Do the same for the left and right padding for the
image in the header, the left and right padding for the section, and the left
padding for the aside.
7. Test these changes in Chrome. When you do, you’ll notice that changing the
widths ofthe <a>elements doesn’t work.
8. Move the declaration that specifies the width ofthe <a>elements to the style
rule for the li elements that contain the <a>elements, and then test the page
again. This time, the navigation menu should look the way it did to start.
9. Notice, however, that the page now extends beyond the right side ofthe
browser window. That’s because the maximum width ofthe body is 160 pixels
wider than the original page. Increase the width ofthe browser window to see
that the width ofthe page will increase only until it reaches 960 pixels.
10. Decrease the width ofthe browser until the sidebar no longer fits next to the
section to see that the sidebar is now displayed below the section. Although
this is generally what you want to happen, this formatting can be improved.
11. Continue decreasing the width ofthe browser to see what happens to the
article. To improve this, you’Il make the image scalable.
Make the image in the article scalable
12. Display the HTML for the page, and notice that the img element for the image
in the article doesn’t contain width or height attributes. Because ofthat, the
image is displayed at its native width of250 pixels, and the text that flows into
the space to its left takes up the rest ofthe width ofthe article.
13. Set the max-width property ofthis image to 40%. In addition, set the
min-width property to 150 pixels so the image doesn’t get to be too small.
Then, test the page.
14. Enlarge the browser window so you can see the entire width ofthe page, and
then press F12 to display the Developer Tools. If necessary, use the Customize
menu to dock the Developer Tools at the bottom ofthe browser for now.
15. Start to reduce the width ofthe window, and notice that the screen size is
displayed in the upper right corner. Continue to reduce the width ofthe
window until the section and the aside get to be too close together, and note
the width ofthe page.
16. Add a media query for the screen type that checks that the viewport width is
the width you just noted or less. Within this media query, decrease the font
size ofthe <a>elements within the h2 elements ofthe aside to 85%, decrease
the font size ofthe hl element in the section to 125%, and decrease the font
size ofthe h2 elements in the section and aside to 110%.
17. Return to the browser window to see that the font sizes ofthe headings have
been decreased.
18. Reduce the width ofthe window some more until the section and the aside get
too close again, and note the width of the screen.
19. Code a media query for the screen type that checks that the viewport width
is the width youjust noted or less. Within this media query, change the
image in the header so it doesn’t float and center the contents ofthe header.
20. Return to the browser window to see that the styles you just coded have
been applied. Although this looks pretty good, the line length in the section
is starting to get too short.
21. Change the section and aside so they don’t float. Then, set the right padding
for the aside so it’s the same as the left padding, and set the widths ofthe
section and aside by subtracting the left and right padding from 100%.
22. Test the page and notice that the image in the article is too big. Fix that by
changing the maximum width ofthe image to 30%, and then test again.
23. To improve the formatting for the aside, display the speakers in two
columns. To do that, you’ll need to add a div around everything in the aside
except the h2 element. Then, you can set the column-count property to 2.
Test this change.
24. Use figure 8-14 as a guide to add a link element for the slicknav.css file in
the styles folder and a script element for the jquery.slicknav.min.js file in the
js folder to the head element ofthe page. In addition, add a script element
for thejQuery core library before the script element for the SlickNav
plugin.
25. Add a nav element before the nav element for the navigation menu, and
give it an id of“mobile_menu”.
26. Add another script element like the one in figure 8-14 that includes the
jQuery for calling the slicknav method.
27. Add a style rule outside the media queries that hides the mobile menu.
Then, add three style rules in the last media query you created. The first
one should hide the standard navigation menu, the second one should
display the mobile menu, and the third one should set the background color
ofthe mobile menu to #800000 using the slicknav_menu class.
28. Test this code, and notice that the mobile menu still has its default
background color ofdark gray. To change that, add an !important declara-
tion to the declaration for the background color and test again.
Test the page at smaller widths
29. Dock the Developer Tools at the right side ofthe browser window. Then,
narrow the window until the p element in the footer runs over to a second
line, and note the width ofthe screen.
30. Code one more media query for the screen type that checks that the
viewport width is the more than the width you noted or less so the footer
doesn’t get too close to the edges ofthe screen. Within this media query,
change the base font size to 90% to decrease all the font sizes for the page.
This illustrates the advantage ofusing relative sizes for fonts.
